Deepen your subject knowledge, exchange innovative ideas and augment your existing income.
There are so many reasons to become a Pearson Examiner.
In addition to enriching your expertise and progressing your career,
you'll be better prepared to help your learners achieve future success in their exams.
With flexible working options and full training provided,
becoming a Pearson Examiner will open opportunities for both you and your students.
It's a bonafide win-win situation.
Discover more by visiting home.edxlgateway.com forward slash pages forward slash search.
Hi, just leaving work now. Sorry it's a bit loud.
Um, basically, so I was thinking we could get mackeys tonight.
Had a Big Mac on my mind all day and delivery fee on the app is now from 99p.
So, you in?
Of course you are.
Love you. Bye.
Exclusively on the McDonald's app.
18 plus, service fee and small order fee may apply.
Participating in restaurants, serving times and C's and C's apply.
Hello, I'm a National Lottery scratch card.
Over five people a second win with me.
That's like 30 winners since I started talking.
Oh, 12 more, 14.
21!
Is there a win in store for you?
Play a National Lottery scratch card today.
Winners is an average search.
Dream big, play small.
Rules apply, players must be 18 or over.
Hello and welcome to Incident Genius, a bite-sized masterclass in podcast form.
Every Monday and Friday, you'll hear world-leading scientists and experts
talking about the most fascinating ideas in science and technology today.
I'm Jason Goodger, Commissioning Editor at BBC Science Focus.
In the world of games, scoring systems establish a framework
that provides us with clear challenges, motivation
and ultimately delivers a huge amount of fun and pleasure.
However, on the flip side, the increasing tendency to apply rankings and metrics
to almost every area of our personal and professional lives
can have a dehumanising effect, reducing our actions,
performance and even ourselves to a simple string of numbers.
In today's episode, we're joined by C.T. Nguyen, a games researcher
and associate professor of philosophy based at the University of Utah,
to talk about his latest book, The Score, How to Stop Playing Someone Else's Game.
He explains how in the real world, scoring systems typically fail to provide meaning
by focusing on the simplest to measure outcomes.
How purely numerical data is, by definition, lacking in nuance.
How, by concentrating on what we truly value,
we can all break free from the tyranny of rankings and metrics.
T, welcome to the podcast. Thanks so much for joining us.
Thank you. I'm happy to be here.
Today, we're talking about your latest book, The Score,
How to Stop Playing Someone Else's Game.
That's quite a provocative title, I'd say.
It's all about the notion of games and gamification.
First off, to get us all on the same page,
you hear the term bandied around a lot, but what exactly do we mean by gamification?
I started writing this book because I became obsessed with a question
that came up from two different streams of what I was thinking about.
One stream was about how games and scoring systems often lead to such delightful play,
and the other half was about how gamification's rankings and metrics,
my experience of them in education, institution, online, on social media,
seem to drain the life out of everything and ruin my experience of communication,
of education, of being a researcher, of being a person.
I wanted to understand that.
Gamification is a really complicated term.
The first thing to say about gamification is that gamification is taking the kind of
superficial trappings of a game, the leveling experience, the scoring experience,
the fact that you're getting points, and applying it to a non-game context,
applying it to work, applying it to education.
Underneath and more deep down, I think one way to put it,
and this is maybe my own quirky usage, is that games are things,
they're kind of artificial activities that you create and invent,
and to do that you use a scoring system.
And gamifications are taking something that we're actually already doing
with an actually extant goal, right?
We're already trying to learn things, we're already trying to get healthier,
we're already trying to increase our scientific product,
and then applying the appearance and mechanics of a scoring system
and slapping that onto a real-life activity, and I think substantively transforming it.
Yeah, so let's start with scoring systems, and I think while it might not necessarily always
be in the forefront of our minds, if we stop and think for just a few seconds,
scoring systems or ranking systems are everywhere, grades at school, sports leagues,
movie reviews, and even in things like artistic pursuits.
So I play classical guitar, and I've forgotten the amount of times I've played a piece for somebody,
and the first thing they say is,
Oof, that looks tricky, what grade is it?
You know, they want to know what level it's at.
It's really, really interesting, isn't it? Like psychologically.
So first off, is there a sort of quick and dirty definition of what a scoring system is?
You know, how can we define it?
A scoring system, I think it's a particular kind of social technology.
It's a way of doing things.
I worked some in the philosophy of technology,
and I have a really broad definition of a technology.
A technology is a way of doing things.
Sometimes it's material, but sometimes it's like an idea or a way of organizing an institution.
Like for a lot of people in the space, like the idea of a factory,
the idea of an assembly line is a kind of technology.
It's a new way of doing things that changes the world.
I think the scoring system is something similar.
A scoring system is a social technology.
It's a method for guaranteeing a convergence of judgments.
It's some way of specifying in an official way how we're going to judge things so we all get on board.
And I think one thing, so the book we're talking about,
it's my first popular book, but it's my second book.
My first book was an academic book about games.
And that first book, one of the things I really wanted to talk about
was the beauty of games as this designed art form
that weren't just stories or narratives or worlds,
but were specifying alternate selves.
So I was really inspired while I was reading this stuff
by a lecture at the Game Developers Conference
by Reiner Knizia, who's my favorite board game designer.
He's a German genius of board game design.
And he says in this moment that the scoring system
is the most important design tool in his toolbox
because it tells the players what to care about.
It sets their motivations in the game.
Like you open up a game, you open up a board game,
and you find out what you're trying to do.
You find out whether your cares are going to be aligned with other people
or aligned with team or whether you're completely individualistic.
You find out whether you're getting points for killing people
or collecting resources, right?
They tell you what to do.
But one thing I missed, and I kind of can't believe I missed it,
I think it's because I was obsessed with board games
when I was writing the first book.
I thought that every game had to have a scoring system.
And now I realize that they don't.
And it's actually really valuable to look at the difference
between unscored and scored games.
So there are a lot of games and a lot of even competitive games
that don't have a scoring system.
And a lot of these look like aesthetic games.
So my favorite example is like skateboarding.
When people go to the skate park, I'm not a skateboarder.
I'm a rock climber, I'm a fisher, but I'm not a skateboarder.
So all of this is secondhand knowledge.
They're often, they are competing and they're competing for cool.
By the way, I should confess, in my first draft of this book,
I said that skateboarders were competing for the coolest trick.
And a 20 something year old editor, Penguin, who's a skateboarder,
she wrote me a note and said,
you sound old and out of touch with her misdeeds.
It turned out to mean stylish ease, which I love.
I didn't know. I feel like a poser saying this.
But like, so there's often an aesthetic competition
and you don't have a pre-established way of figuring out who won.
And in fact, you can go and come out with a,
A, you don't need to have a single conclusion.
You can be like, oh, I wanted to skate park
and this person did the most explosive trick
and this person did the most beautiful trick.
That's fine. You don't need to see a single conclusion.
And you also don't need a bunch of people
to come to the same conclusion, right?
You can have the competition, right?
I mean, I think in a very casual sense,
if you're sitting around your friends
and like casually competing to tell the funniest joke,
it's clear that it's a competition and it's clear that it's a game,
but you don't need a method to settle who won officially.
And you see these transitions.
There's a transition in skateboarding
when skateboarding went official,
when it went to ESPNX games and the Olympics.
They needed a clearer way to produce something
that looked like an objective score.
And so the practice shifted
from a kind of more aesthetic, stylish practice
to one centered on more mechanistic, easier to measure,
easier to publicly validate goals, height, and number of flips.
The entire practice shifted in order to make it easy
for everyone to agree on the same judgment.
And I think in some sense, what this book is about
is worrying on the smaller scale.
Maybe this kind of scoring system change
robs us of something in skateboarding, maybe.
But I'm worried about this in the large scale
that this is happening everywhere, globally,
that we are shifting consistently from subtler, richer,
but still real targets to easier to measure, easier to count,
easier to agree on targets,
and that this is shifting what we care about.
Part of what I say in the book is that the thing that
I'm really worried about is what I'm calling the gap.
And the gap is the distance between what actually matters
and what's easy to measure and easy to count in a public manner.
And those aren't the same.
And I think it's really easy to think.
I mean, I don't know how technical you want to get,
but one way for me to put it is it's really easy
for us to make this slide into thinking
that what's easy to count together is all that's real.
It's all that's objective.
Actually, no, there are plenty of things that are real
and really important, that are very subtle
and require a lot of experience to understand.
But the demand of scoring systems that we count in unison easily,
that the counting rules be accessible to everyone
and that everyone can count in the same way,
they shift what we target in a profound and systematic way.
Yeah, so in the book, you write something
that I thought was really fascinating,
something that I've actually thought myself
that's fly fishing.
I've never actually been fly fishing myself,
but when I was younger, I was a keen course angler.
I often go with my dad and my twin.
And of course, you naturally enter into a competition
without even trying to, who can catch the biggest fish,
who can catch the most different species or whatever.
But if you were to ask me now, 20, well, blind me,
30 odd years later, what do I remember from that?
I don't remember the day that I caught the most fish.
I don't remember the biggest fish that I caught.
I just remember spending time with my family outdoors,
having a really good time.
So in the book, you have a sentence
that while catching fish may be the goal of fishing,
it's not the purpose.
And I think that's a really key point.
So can you unpack that idea for us, please?
Yeah, this is one of the central ideas, I think.
And one of the things why, I know some people think it's weird
that I'm a philosopher and I think a lot about games.
I think games teach us something really important about,
I mean, maybe this sounds pretentious,
but the meaning of life.
And it's there in what you just said.
I started thinking about this because I think a moment,
I was in graduate school and my mentor, Barbara Herman,
the esteemed Kantian ethicist who terrified everyone,
she was saying something.
And all the graduate students are always trying
to catch out the professors.
And we were like, oh, that doesn't make sense.
And we tried to, I can't even remember what the point was.
And she was like, oh, you're all making a mistake.
You're just failing to distinguish between a goal
and a purpose.
And all those were like, ah, there's no such thing
as a difference.
And those are the same thing.
And she says, no, when you invite your friends over
for a night of cards, the goal is to win,
but the purpose is to have fun.
And these are really different, right?
I think one way to put it is that the goal of a game
is what you formally pursue in the game.
It's the stated goal of the game.
It's the victory condition.
And the purpose is why you play.
And there are different reasons to play.
For some people, I call them achievement players.
Some people play the game in order to win.
That's the value for them, right?
Either because it gets them something they want,
like status or money, or because they just want to win.
That's achievement play.
Another kind of player is a striving player.
And a striving player is somebody who tries to win
in order to have a process of interesting or beautiful
or satisfying struggle.
What they care about is the struggle.
And the interesting thing for me about games
is that in the posture of striving play,
what you care about is the process,
but you can't get that process without trying to win.
One of the interesting things for me about fly fishing
is I find it very meditative, actually.
I'm out in Utah, and I know a lot of dudes
that have this very intense relationship to fly fishing.
And my theory is that what they actually need is meditation,
but they're too doodly to actually do that explicitly.
But fly fishing is like cover, right?
You're like, oh, I'm fly fishing.
But it can't just be like a superficial cover.
You just can't go pretend to yourself
and then go out there and try to meditate.
The whole point is that meditation doesn't happen
when you aim at meditating.
Meditating happens for me on the river
when I'm trying to catch fish,
which means I'm trying to look at my surroundings
to find signs of fish.
And so that goal forces me to pay much more attention
than I would ever pay to the fine details
of the surface of the water.
And then I achieve meditation, kind of accidentally.
There's a philosophy term for this, a self-effacing end.
A self-effacing end is an end you can't aim at directly.
My favorite version of this is relaxation.
You can't relax just by being like, I'm going to relax.
You can't relax by trying harder to relax.
I relax by trying to climb rocks.
So there's a place where the goal is to go up,
but the purpose is to cleanse my mind and relax.
Deepen your subject knowledge,
exchange innovative ideas and augment your existing income.
There are so many reasons to become a Pearson Examiner.
In addition to enriching your expertise
and progressing your career,
you'll be better prepared to help your learners
achieve future success in their exams.
With flexible working options and full training provided,
becoming a Pearson Examiner will open opportunities
for both you and your students.
It's a bona fide win-win situation.
Discover more by visiting
home.edXLgateway.com forward slash pages forward slash search.
AI is incredible.
It can teach you how to fry an egg
and even write a poem, pirate style.
But it knows nothing about your work.
Slackbot is different.
It doesn't just know the facts.
It knows your schedule.
It can turn a brainstorm into a brief.
And it doesn't need to be taught
because Slackbot isn't just another AI.
It's AI that knows your work as well as you do.
Visit slack.com forward slash meet Slackbot to learn more.
So sort of running through the book as well,
that's sort of veering over the whole thing
is perhaps the evil sibling of the story,
if I can call it that.
And that's metrics.
So what do we mean by metric?
What is a metric?
A metric, one way to put it is a metric
is a scoring system for reality, right?
A game is a scoring system imposed
on an artificial separate universe.
It's this old idea that games happen in a magic circle
and you go in and you try to, you know,
destroy your spouse and then you step back and you're like,
ah, everything's fine again.
Metrics are what happens when you use quantitative data
about the real world and you transform that
into a target or a scoring system.
It's when you target something that can be easily measured.
In the game's half of the book,
the core concept is striving play, which we've talked about.
On the metric side, the core concept for me
is the idea of value capture.
Value capture is what happens when your values
are kind of rich and subtle
and then you enter an institution or a social setting
that feeds you simplified,
typically quantified renditions of those values
and the simplified ones take over.
So for me, it was going to philosophy graduate school
out of a love of philosophy
and then coming out obsessed with citation rates
in highly ranked journals.
For a lot of scientists I know,
they go into the love of wisdom
and they come out obsessed with like grant numbers
and how big your grants are.
For journalists, it becomes page views.
For a lot of us on social media,
you start wanting communication
and you start ending up wanting likes.
And so the important thing for me about a metric
is that a metric presents you a target
and a target that's limited
in the way we talked about before.
It's limited because of the need
for everyone to count together.
So it's limited to touching on the kind of features
that everyone can count easily, height, number of flips.
And then if what's actually valuable
is not what's easily counted,
then value capture will tend to push your values away
from what actually matters.
By the way, maybe this will entertain you.
I have a favorite example of this in normal life
that got cut from the book
because it seemed gross,
but I think you'll find it interesting.
So while I was reading this,
I started researching pickup artist culture.
And interestingly, pickup artists
have been really well studied
by sociologists and anthropologists.
There's a sociologist, Eric Hendricks,
who embedded with pickup artists for a while.
So pickup artist culture is people,
mostly but not always men,
who compete for sexual success.
And one of the interesting things that he discovered
was that pickup artists are uninterested in happiness.
In fact, one of the standard mottoes is
you have to sacrifice any interest
in happiness or pleasure in order to win.
So what pickup artists typically compete for,
and I think this is like one of my favorite examples,
is number of phone numbers you get in the night,
number of sexual acts you get in a month,
speed from meeting someone
to some kind of sexual interaction.
Here's what they don't compete for,
romance, quality relationships,
or even pleasure, right?
This is one of the things that blew my mind.
I thought pickup artists would be evil,
but at least enjoys themselves.
But I think something else has happened
that's even worse.
And hopefully it's clear.
The whole point is that pickup artistry
has shifted the need for competition
and accountability about your competition
and transparency about your wins
has led to a shift of the behavior
towards targeting things that are so far,
at least for me,
from what most of us would think is valuable
in a romantic relationship,
even a short-term one.
And that's an example of value capture,
where they've sacrificed any amount of pleasure
or happiness purely just for essentially,
for a number.
Bragging rights, I suppose,
they can say, you're 10, I'm 12,
I'm better than you sort of thing.
Exactly.
And this is the part where I want to caution,
and I want to be like,
it's really easy to point at other people and laugh,
but I think it's very easy
to find value capture cases in your own life.
I've been value captured by the quest for lower weight,
the quest for optimizing my macronutrients,
the quest to get higher on the philosophy rankings.
Each of these things has for some period of time
consumed me, and it's really wild
because it's so miserable a lot of the times.
The thing that I find really fascinating
is how easy it is to lose your grip
on what really matters
when you're presented with a simple, clear number,
both institutionally,
like in my academic life,
I'm in large-scale institutions that have,
to my mind, stopped targeting things
like teaching curiosity, teaching reflection,
teaching any kind of intellectual virtue,
and started targeting things
like graduation rate and graduation speed.
Again, easy measurables that capture people's attention
because they are easy to express.
Yeah, so I think you mentioned there
one, as you say, slightly gross example,
and then a more serious one,
but the first thing that perhaps came to my mind
when I was thinking about this
is where the emphasis is placed
on the incorrect metric
would be something like GP appointments.
Like there's a lot of talk about this
at the moment over here in the UK,
and you can reach a point where sort of GP practices,
let's say hypothetically,
we're rating these practices
on the number of patients that they're seeing.
So if we're concentrating on that,
obviously what we're going to do
is reduce the appointment time
so we can fit in more appointments per day.
And the only logical conclusion to that
to me seems that the quality of care is going to go down.
But if we're using this metric to rate them on,
it will go up while the quality,
the sort of rating goes up,
while the quality of care goes down.
So is that the kind of example that you're talking about?
Right, that's exactly the kind of example I'm talking about.
Actually, that example is a great one.
I think whenever I talk about this stuff,
everyone wants to tell me
about the terrible metric in their life,
but I think it's actually more unnerving
for me to think about subtler examples.
I think it's going to be really obvious.
I mean, so I'm a professor.
I'm rated on student evaluations.
We all know the way to get high student evaluations
is to make an easy class.
Students don't learn as much,
but you get higher evaluations.
Lousy metrics are really, really obvious.
I think some of the most nauseating cases for me
are cases where the metrics are pretty good,
but imperfect.
And the one that this is perhaps
a politically dangerous view,
but a worrisome one for me that I've been obsessed with
since the COVID pandemic is the degree
to which easy public health metrics
like lives saved and life expectancy
tend to trump other considerations
like life quality, cultural quality,
community, mental health.
And I'm not saying that it's not important to save lives,
but I'm saying maybe a less controversial example for me
is like saturated fats, like cheese, right?
It's very easy to track heart attack rates,
longer lifespans, very hard to track culinary joy.
The claim here isn't anti-scientific.
There is a genuine real correlation
between saturated fats and heart attack rates.
The claim is certain kinds of things
that are easier to measure tend to beat out automatically
and unthinkingly other harder to measure values.
And try to understand this.
So there's one common response here,
which is, oh, that's just a bad metric.
We need to find better metrics.
And I had this gut, a lot of the time
when I was thinking about this,
I had this gut response that you wouldn't be able
to find better metrics for certain kinds of things,
especially central human values.
And I was trying to understand why.
And I found some answers,
especially from some philosophers like Elizabeth Barnes
who works on the notion of health
and then a bunch of historians
in a field called science and technology studies.
So Theodore Porter unlocked a huge amount
of this stuff for me.
And this is a thing I am literally dying to talk about
on the BBC science podcast.
Because this, okay.
So Theodore Porter was a historian
who was inspired by actually by a bunch of philosophers
I have to claim like Ian Hacking and Bruno Latour.
And he was really interested in why politicians
and administrators tended to unthinking
kind of automatically reach for quantitative justification,
even when the metrics were bad.
So the theory he developed was that
there were two kinds of ways of knowing about the world,
qualitative and quantitative.
And it's not that quantitative is bad.
It's that each of them is a tool designed
for a different purpose
with different strengths and weaknesses.
And the problem is compulsively reaching
for the quantitative.
So qualitative justification, written words,
is open-ended, dynamic, subtle, rich,
but it travels badly between contexts
because it requires a huge amount of shared background.
So one way for me, my example is as a professor,
when I write qualitative evaluations of my students,
I can respond along multiple dimensions.
I don't have to declare a single overall score.
I can be like, well, you're really creative,
but it wasn't as rigorous.
I didn't have to settle that up.
And I can also use all the rich language,
a philosophy of my class.
But one, those things don't travel well.
Like people from the business school
will not understand my comments
and I won't understand their student comments.
And two, they do not aggregate well.
Like thousands of student evaluations don't aggregate.
So what Porter says is quantitative information
is a kind of instrument that's designed
to get around this problem.
When we create quantitative information in an institution,
we identify a context-invariant kernel.
We find something that's stable across all contexts,
that everyone from different backgrounds can understand.
We agree on it, we rigidify it,
and then we can all understand and connect and collect into it.
So in the US, this is GPA, grade point average.
If you get an A, that's a four.
If you get a B, that's a three.
Every student work can be pushed into a single spectrum
that can be quickly averaged
and get a grade point average.
So Porter's insight is that data has been designed to travel.
His term is that it's portable.
It's been made to be portable.
And the way it's made to be portable
is it has context and subtlety stripped out.
It's been designed to be understood across contexts.
So I think the thing that Porter identifies for me
is that the kind of what I would call
the insensitivity and inhumanity of metrics
is an essential design feature.
In order to communicate readily at scale,
we have to strip off things that require
high context and nuance to understand.
So the thing that makes metrics powerful,
that is the quick aggregation, the easy comprehensibility,
is achieved precisely at the cost of loss of nuance.
And I'm not saying this is bad in every case.
Like this is also, this is not just metrics.
This is science, right?
The reason why it's really easy to optimize
for certain things like antibiotics
is that having an antibiotic stop your infection
is really easy for everyone to see.
Having a lifesaving measure save on someone's life,
that's easy to count.
So those are the kinds of things
that are very easy to collect large scale data for.
Things that are highly variable require high sensitivity
or that are subtle are very hard.
And this is not saying they're not real, right?
It's just saying that they're hard for everyone
to assess quickly and easily.
One of my favorite examples of here is like,
so there are a lot of legal rights that we connect to age.
And what we actually don't, we don't actually care about age.
What we actually care about is intellectual
and emotional maturity, but it would be a disaster
if we granted voting rights based on intellectual
and emotional maturity, right?
You would need a particular judge.
So there's a case where we make a trade-off
and instead of exactly tracking the thing,
we find a mechanical line in the U.S.
You get to vote if you're 18, right?
And that mechanical line is inarguable.
Everyone assesses it at the same place.
And that's a case where I think it's great.
It is fantastic that for voting,
we have a clear mechanical line that everyone can replicate.
But for other things, like, I don't know,
choosing your arts grants or choosing your fitness routine
or choosing what your career is.
These things, it's less important that our decision procedure
and our targeting procedure are bound by the standard
of absolute context-crossing decontextualization.
I mean, the quick way to put it is that for Porter,
data and therefore metrics are a designed engineer technology
that gets us fast, portable aggregability
at the cost of context.
Yeah, so another thing that you talk about is the appeal of metrics.
And I don't think it's just their tidiness.
It's kind of the kind of authority
that they seem to carry within them.
You know, that's the final verdict on this issue.
This such and such is five out of 10.
That's it, you know, and so we're kind of,
do you think we're less likely to challenge that
because it seems like it is so black and white?
Yeah, I mean, there are a lot of, this has been this puzzle for me
for the longest time of why these things are so seductive.
One of the early explanations I had was that
there's this kind of like existential soothingness,
like it's really painful to be exposed to the complexity of real values
and this makes things easy.
That's one explanation.
Another explanation is that it's just easier to communicate.
And Porter tells us why.
It's been designed to be easier to communicate.
Lately, I've been thinking, I even came up with a term for it
literally yesterday in my graduate seminar,
talking to my students about this.
A lot of the times, the way we say that something is objective
versus subjective is that we get someone else's confirmation.
They see it too, right?
That is literally the basic, if you go back to like
old Hume classics of empiricist philosophy,
you know that the feeling of warmth is subjective
because different people experience it differently in the same place
and you know that temperature is objective
because different people will come up with the same measurement, right?
But I kind of think metrics do a kind of objectivity hacking, right?
They create a quick, easy shortcut to agreement and convergence
by zeroing in on features that are highly accessible.
And so this is, I feel like we're headed into like weirdo technical philosophy,
but the thing that's really interesting to me
is the difference between what's real and what's important
and what's easily observable by anybody,
especially under conditions of quickness and speed.
And metrics are designed to create easy convergence at speed among everybody.
They're a shortcut to the appearance of objectivity.
So we've talked about quite a lot there,
a lot of different pitfalls that are in this.
So sort of for someone who's listening, he's thinking, you know,
how can they avoid falling foul of these pitfalls?
You know, what can we learn from games?
And you talk about the notion of play, which is really interesting,
that we can actually apply in our own lives,
because often it can feel like a lot of these things
are just completely out of our own control.
Yeah, I mean, not only A, a lot of these systems are out of our control
and a lot of the fixes here are structural.
I'm not going to sit here and say like, we can fix this through individual grit.
Like a lot of this is because of the way the institutions work.
Even there, you can find different relationships to external scoring systems.
And it's important to remember that we do use them all the time.
Even I think even the best relationship to scoring systems in the world
is going to constantly use them because scoring systems
are a response to real needs to understand other people,
to make them transparent to us, to get information quickly.
Like I use rankings when I buy household gadgets.
I don't have the time to research every dishwasher.
I use rankings, right?
They're summarized compressed information.
What you want to do is realize that they're highly lossy,
highly information devoid, highly thin packages
that are useful, maybe a starting point that are not complete.
And I think games offer us a really good glimpse of what we can do
because I think the life that games,
it's not that they automatically give this to you,
but the life they encourage is a life in which
you enter scoring systems voluntarily
and you choose which ones you want to have
and you can modify them, right?
Like the difference in games, I mean, this is,
and this is in many ways, it's a structural difference, right?
You can house rule your poker game or your Dungeons and Dragons game.
You can't house rule GPA because of the way that metrics function.
But the closest you can approximate to that is something like,
I think games encourage something that I want to call reflective control.
So games encourage trying a scoring system
and then not just assuming that we have to play this particular board game forever,
but thinking afterwards, was it worth it?
Was it fun?
And what you're doing is transitioning between
being absorbed in a particular game goal
and reflecting more deeply on its purpose
and whether that purpose was rich or meaningful to you.
And you can just decide, now that game sucked,
I'm not going to play it again.
Or that game was kind of good, but I'm going to modify it.
You have some degree of control and games make that easy
because there are so many and they're so disconnected.
I think that's the right attitude.
It's much harder to apply in the world
because you don't have these isolated, easily movable between packages
like you do with games.
You get these massive world-spanning systems.
But still, there's a difference between treating your subscriber count
or your likes or your page views as a rough proxy
that gives you some information
versus treating it, taking on as your core value.
I think one crucial part of that is,
if you take it on as your core value,
you don't have a standpoint from which to reflect
on whether it's working out for you.
If you think the point of your life is just to make the most money
or get the most followers, then that's it.
That's just what you're doing.
But if you're thinking to yourself,
I'm trying to get followers in order to communicate
and connect with people, then you have a stance
from which you can limit your devotion to that simple metric.
Thank you for listening to this episode of Instant Genius,
brought to you from the team behind BBC Science Focus.
That was C.T. Newman.
To discover more about the topics we've just discussed,
check out his book, The Score,
How to Stop Playing Someone Else's Game.
If you liked what you just heard,
then please do consider subscribing to Instant Genius
on your preferred podcast platform.
If you'd like to see our guests and hosts in person,
then why not check out our YouTube channel,
at Science Focus.
The current issue of BBC Science Focus
magazine is out now.
Pick up a copy wherever you buy your favourite magazines
or download us on your app store of choice.
You can also find us on Apple News or online
at sciencefocus.com.
Deepen your subject knowledge, exchange innovative ideas,
and augment your existing income.
There are so many reasons to become a Pearson Examiner.
In addition to enriching your expertise
and progressing your career, you'll be better prepared
to help your learners achieve future success in their exams.
With flexible working options and full training,
you'll be able to make the most of your time
and make the most of your time.
You'll be able to make the most of your time
and make the most of your time.
You'll be able to make the most of your time
With flexible working options and full training provided,
becoming a Pearson Examiner will open opportunities
for both you and your students.
It's a bonafide win-win situation.
Discover more by visiting home.edXLgateway.com
forward slash pages forward slash search.
Hello, I'm a National Lottery scratch card.
Over five people a second win with me.
That's like 30 winners since I started talking.
Oh, 12 more.
14.
21.
Is there a winning star for you?
Play a National Lottery scratch card today.
Winners is an average search.
Dream big, play small.
Rules apply, players must be 18 or over.
